ah here's an interesting subject you
point it's a very sensitive issue in
which many people are kind of at each
other's throats over you know agreeing
or disagreeing about certain aspects of
it but ignore what other people say you
can use any form of narrative viewpoint
as you like I'm just here to explain the
pros and cons of them all first person
first person narrative is when the
author narrates the events through the
eyes of a certain character usually the
protagonist using personal pronouns such
as I me we and us first person is along
the lines of something like this it was
freezing in the Attic I shivered
wrapping my arms around myself in an
attempt to keep myself warm my breath
clouding before my eyes in the dimness I
fumbled around searching for the light
switch which I knew was around us
somewhere retracting back in alarm a
sticky cobweb stuck to my fingers the
best thing about first person is that
you're on a more personal level with the
conveying character making you associate
with them war and it's very simple as
you only see through their eyes not
through everybody else's and not over
filling your head with different views
on things the bad thing about first
person is that since you only know what
a main character knows and unless said
God and know everything you won't be
able to switch to perspective as someone
else and what other and what other
things are going on behind closed doors
but this is also a good thing as the
author can spring more surprises on
reader if even the main characters and
suspecting them but sometimes when
people use first person they just see it
as an autobiographical in serve yourself
and that's not good so be brave and make
captors very different from your own
personality third-person third-person
narrative consists of the author telling
the story addressing all the character
as he she they it and so on and is
probably more common than first person
is something like this Jack went up into
the attic shivering at the sudden cold
and feeling around for a light switch I
know it's around here somewhere he
muttered to himself suddenly he sands
caught Biff's cobweb and he flinched at
the touch sticky and smooth best thing
about third person zetman writer is
omnipresent shifting from character the
character as many times as they like in
one scene so you always know what that's
all talking or all thinking or feeling
all talking bloody ell it also spares
the eyes from overuse there things about
fur person is that the reader doesn't
really feel as involved in the story as
they would when reading first person
Plus as this is a personal opinion yeah
this is a personal opinion unless
written well third person can become
rather boring with description yeah I
know viewpoint also covers the tents
you're going to use when you're telling
your story you only have two choices
really past or present tense I'm sure
all you know about this if not then go
back to school if you ask me and I say
use past tense present tense just gets
on peoples nerves a lot unless it's done
right and when it is done especially in
third person the reader feels like
they're reading an endless list of
something happening instead of a story
Gary walks over to the table Beatrice
laughs see but by all means use present
tense if you want to don't think you've
got to use past tense I'm just saying
that's the better option and I think
that's all for today's entry so farewell
and add you